Practice exercise question:

1.	Basic Programming questions:
a.	Write a program to perform basic input/output operations.
b.	Write a program to enter two numbers and perform arithmetic operations on them.
c.	Write a program to find area, circumference/perimeter of different geometrical shapes.
d.	Write a program to convert meters to kilometers.
e.	Write a program to convert Celsius to Fahrenheit and vice versa.
f.	Write a program to convert days into years, months and weeks. 
g.	Write a program to find power of any number.
h.	Write a program to find simple interest when P, R, T are given.

2.	Bitwise  operator questions:

a.	Write a  program to check Least Significant Bit (LSB) of a number is set or not.
b.	Write a  program to check Most Significant Bit (MSB) of a number is set or not.
c.	Write a  program to get nth bit of a number.
d.	Write a  program to set nth bit of a number.
e.	Write a  program to clear nth bit of a number.
f.	Write a  program to toggle nth bit of a number.
g.	Write a  program to get highest set bit of a number.
h.	Write a  program to get lowest set bit of a number.
i.	Write a  program to count trailing zeros in a binary number.
j.	Write a  program to count leading zeros in a binary number.
k.	Write a  program to flip bits of a binary number using bitwise operator.
l.	Write a  program to count total zeros and ones in a binary number.
m.	Write a  program to rotate bits of a given number.
n.	Write a  program to convert decimal to binary number system using bitwise operator.
o.	Write a  program to swap two numbers using bitwise operator.

3.	Conditional operator questions:
a.	Write a  program to find maximum between two numbers using conditional operator.
b.	Write a  program to find maximum between three numbers using conditional operator.
c.	Write a  program to check whether a number is even or odd using conditional operator.
d.	Write a  program to check whether year is leap year or not using conditional operator.
e.	Write a  program to check whether character is an alphabet or not using con-ditional operator.

4.	If-else questions:
a.	Write a  program to find maximum between two numbers.
b.	Write a  program to find maximum between three numbers.
c.  Write a  program to check whether a number is negative, positive or zero.
d.	Write a  program to check whether a number is divisible by 5 and 11 or not.
e.	Write a  program to check whether a number is even or odd.
f.	Write a  program to check whether a year is leap year or not.
g.	Write a  program to check whether a character is alphabet or not.
h.	Write a  program to input any alphabet and check whether it is vowel or con-sonant.
i.	Write a  program to input any character and check whether it is alphabet, digit or special character.
j.	Write a  program to check whether a character is uppercase or lowercase al-phabet.
k.	Write a  program to input week number and print week day.
l.	Write a  program to input month number and print number of days in that month.
m.	Write a  program to count total number of notes in given amount.
n.	Write a  program to input angles of a triangle and check whether triangle is valid or not.
o.	Write a  program to input all sides of a triangle and check whether triangle is valid or not.
p.	Write a  program to check whether the triangle is equilateral, isosceles or scalene triangle.
q.	Write a  program to find all roots of a quadratic equation.
r.	Write a  program to calculate profit or loss.
s.	Write a  program to input marks of five subjects Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Mathematics and Computer. Calculate percentage and grade according to following:
                                    Percentage >= 90% : Grade A
                                    Percentage >= 80% : Grade B
                                   Percentage >= 70% : Grade C
                                   Percentage >= 60% : Grade D
                                   Percentage >= 40% : Grade E
                                   Percentage < 40% : Grade F
t.	Write a  program to input basic salary of an employee and calculate its Gross salary according to following:
                                  Basic Salary <= 10000 : HRA = 20%, DA = 80%
                                  Basic Salary <= 20000 : HRA = 25%, DA = 90%
                                  Basic Salary > 20000 : HRA = 30%, DA = 95%
u.	Write a  program to input electricity unit charges and calculate total electricity bill according to the given condition:
                                  For first 50 units Rs. 0.50/unit
                                  For next 100 units Rs. 0.75/unit
                                 For next 100 units Rs. 1.20/unit
                                 For unit above 250 Rs. 1.50/unit
                                 An additional surcharge of 20% is added to the bill

5.	Switch case questions:

a)	Write a  program to print day of week name using switch case.
b)	Write a  program print total number of days in a month using switch case.
c)	Write a  program to check whether an alphabet is vowel or consonant using switch case.
d)	Write a  program to find maximum between two numbers using switch case.
e)	Write a  program to check whether a number is even or odd using switch case.
f)	Write a  program to find roots of a quadratic equation using switch case.
g)	Write a  program to create Simple Calculator using switch case.


6.	Loops and iteration:

a)	Write a  program to print all natural numbers from 1 to n. - using while loop
b)	Write a  program to print all natural numbers in reverse (from n to 1). -    us-ing while loop
c)	Write a  program to print all alphabets from a to z. - using while loop
d)	Write a  program to print all even numbers between 1 to 100. - using while loop
e)	Write a  program to print all odd number between 1 to 100.
f)	Write a  program to find sum of all natural numbers between 1 to n.
g)	Write a  program to find sum of all even numbers between 1 to n.
h)	Write a  program to find sum of all odd numbers between 1 to n.
i)	Write a  program to print multiplication table of any number.
j)	Write a  program to count number of digits in a number.
k)	Write a  program to find first and last digit of a number.
l) 	Write a  program to find sum of first and last digit of a number.
m)	Write a  program to swap first and last digits of a number.
n)	Write a  program to calculate sum of digits of a number.
o)	Write a  program to calculate product of digits of a number.
p)	Write a  program to enter a number and print its reverse.
q)	Write a  program to check whether a number is palindrome or not.
r)	Write a  program to find frequency of each digit in a given integer.
s)	Write a  program to enter a number and print it in words.
t)	Write a  program to print all ASCII character with their values.
u)	Write a  program to find power of a number using for loop.
v)	Write a  program to find all factors of a number.
w)	Write a  program to calculate factorial of a number.
x)	Write a  program to find HCF (GCD) of two numbers.
y)	Write a  program to find LCM of two numbers.
z)	Write a  program to check whether a number is Prime number or not.
aa)	Write a  program to print all Prime numbers between 1 to n.
bb)	Write a  program to find sum of all prime numbers between 1 to n.
cc)	Write a  program to find all prime factors of a number.
dd)	Write a  program to check whether a number is Armstrong number or not.
ee)	Write a  program to print all Armstrong numbers between 1 to n.
ff)	Write a  program to check whether a number is Perfect number or not.
gg)	Write a  program to print all Perfect numbers between 1 to n.
hh)	Write a  program to check whether a number is Strong number or not.
ii)	Write a  program to print all Strong numbers between 1 to n.
jj)	Write a  program to print Fibonacci series up to n terms.
kk)	Write a  program to find one's complement of a binary number.
ll)	Write a  program to find two's complement of a binary number.
mm)	Write a  program to convert Binary to Octal number system.
nn)	Write a  program to convert Binary to Decimal number system.
oo)	Write a  program to convert Binary to Hexadecimal number system.
pp)	Write a  program to convert Octal to Binary number system.
qq)	Write a  program to convert Octal to Decimal number system.
rr)	Write a  program to convert Octal to Hexadecimal number system.
ss)	Write a  program to convert Decimal to Binary number system.
tt)	Write a  program to convert Decimal to Octal number system.
uu)	Write a  program to convert Decimal to Hexadecimal number system.
vv)	Write a  program to convert Hexadecimal to Binary number system.
ww)	Write a  program to convert Hexadecimal to Octal number system.
xx)	Write a  program to convert Hexadecimal to Decimal number system.
yy)	Write a  program to print Pascal triangle upto n rows.
zz)	Star pattern programs - Write a  program to print the given star patterns.
aaa)	Number pattern programs - Write a  program to print the given number patterns.

7.	Functions and recursion:

a)	Write a  program to find cube of any number using function.
b)	Write a  program to find diameter, circumference and area of circle using func-tions.
c)	Write a  program to find maximum and minimum between two numbers using functions.
d)	Write a  program to check whether a number is even or odd using functions.
e)	Write a  program to check whether a number is prime, Armstrong or perfect num-ber using functions.
f)	Write a  program to find all prime numbers between given interval using functions.
g)	Write a  program to print all strong numbers between given interval using func-tions.
h)	Write a  program to print all Armstrong numbers between given interval using functions.
i)	Write a  program to print all perfect numbers between given interval using func-tions. 
j)	Write a  program to find power of any number using recursion.
k)	Write a  program to print all natural numbers between 1 to n using recursion.
l)	Write a  program to print all even or odd numbers in given range using recursion.
m)	Write a  program to find sum of all natural numbers between 1 to n using recur-sion.
n)	Write a  program to find sum of all even or odd numbers in given range using re-cursion.
o)	Write a  program to find reverse of any number using recursion.
p)	Write a  program to check whether a number is palindrome or not using recursion.
q)	Write a  program to find sum of digits of a given number using recursion.
r)	Write a  program to find factorial of any number using recursion.
s)	Write a  program to generate nth Fibonacci term using recursion.
t)	Write a  program to find GCD (HCF) of two numbers using recursion.
u)	Write a  program to find LCM of two numbers using recursion.
 
v)	Write a  program to display all array elements using recursion.
w)	Write a  program to find sum of elements of array using recursion.
x)	Write a  program to find maximum and minimum elements in array using recur-sion.

8.	Arrays programming questions:

a.	Write a  program to read and print elements of array. - using recursion.
b.	Write a  program to print all negative elements in an array.
c.  Write a  program to find sum of all array elements. - using recursion.
d.	Write a  program to find maximum and minimum element in an array. - us-ing recursion.
e.	Write a  program to find second largest element in an array.
f.	Write a  program to count total number of even and odd elements in an array.
g.	Write a  program to count total number of negative elements in an array.
h.	Write a  program to copy all elements from an array to another array.
i.	Write a  program to insert an element in an array.
j.	Write a  program to delete an element from an array at specified position.
k.	Write a  program to count frequency of each element in an array.
l.	Write a  program to print all unique elements in the array.
m.	Write a  program to count total number of duplicate elements in an array.
n.	Write a  program to delete all duplicate elements from an array.
o.	Write a  program to merge two array to third array.
p.	Write a  program to find reverse of an array.
q.	Write a  program to put even and odd elements of array in two separate array.
r.	Write a  program to search an element in an array.
s.	Write a  program to sort array elements in ascending or descending order.
t.	Write a  program to sort even and odd elements of array separately.
u.	Write a  program to left rotate an array.
v.	Write a  program to right rotate an array.

9.	String programming questions:

a.	Write a  program to find length of a string.
b.	Write a  program to copy one string to another string.
c.	Write a  program to concatenate two strings.
d.	Write a  program to compare two strings.

e.	Write a  program to convert lowercase string to uppercase.
f.	Write a  program to convert uppercase string to lowercase.
g.	Write a  program to toggle case of each character of a string.
 
h.	Write a  program to find total number of alphabets, digits or special character in a string.
i.	Write a  program to count total number of vowels and consonants in a string.
j. 	Write a  program to count total number of words in a string.
k.	Write a  program to find reverse of a string.
l.	Write a  program to check whether a string is palindrome or not.
m.	Write a  program to reverse order of words in a given string.
 
n.	Write a  program to find first occurrence of a character in a given string.
o.	Write a  program to find last occurrence of a character in a given string.
p.	Write a  program to search all occurrences of a character in given string.
q.	Write a  program to count occurrences of a character in given string.
r.	Write a  program to find highest frequency character in a string.
s.	Write a  program to find lowest frequency character in a string.
t.   	Write a  program to count frequency of each character in a string.
u.	Write a  program to remove first occurrence of a character from string.
v.	Write a  program to remove last occurrence of a character from string.
w.	Write a  program to remove all occurrences of a character from string.
x.	Write a  program to remove all repeated characters from a given string.
y.	Write a  program to replace first occurrence of a character with another in a string.
z.	Write a  program to replace last occurrence of a character with another in a string.
aa.	Write a  program to replace all occurrences of a character with another in a string.
 
bb.	Write a  program to find first occurrence of a word in a given string.
cc.	Write a  program to find last occurrence of a word in a given string.
dd.	Write a  program to search all occurrences of a word in given string.
ee.	Write a  program to count occurrences of a word in a given string.
ff.	Write a  program to remove first occurrence of a word from string.
gg.	Write a  program to remove last occurrence of a word in given string.
hh.	Write a  program to remove all occurrence of a word in given string.
 
ii.	Write a  program to trim leading white space characters from given string.
jj.	Write a  program to trim trailing white space characters from given string.
kk.	Write a  program to trim both leading and trailing white space characters from given string.
ll.	Write a  program to remove all extra blank spaces from given string.


10.	Pointers Programming questions:
a.	Write a  program to create, initialize and use pointers.
b.	Write a  program to add two numbers using pointers.
c.  Write a  program to swap two numbers using pointers.
d.	Write a  program to input and print array elements using pointer.
e.	Write a  program to copy one array to another using pointers.
f.	Write a  program to swap two arrays using pointers.
g.	Write a  program to reverse an array using pointers.
h.	Write a  program to search an element in array using pointers.
i.	Write a  program to access two dimensional array using pointers.
j.	Write a  program to add two matrix using pointers.
k.	Write a  program to multiply two matrix using pointers.
l.	Write a  program to find length of string using pointers.
m.	Write a  program to copy one string to another using pointers.
n.	Write a  program to concatenate two strings using pointers.
o.	Write a  program to compare two strings using pointers.
p.	Write a  program to find reverse of a string using pointers.
q.	Write a  program to sort array using pointers.
r.	Write a  program to return multiple value from function using pointers.

